Add Phoenix Application Security Best Practices (#28)
erlef/security-wg: docs/web_app_security_best_practices_beam/session_management_vulnerabilities.md

---
title: Session Management Vulnerabilities
layout: page_with_toc
previous:
  url: common_web_application_vulnerabilities
  title: Common Web Application Vulnerabilities
next:
  url: tls_vulnerabilities
  title: TLS Vulnerabilities
seo_keywords:
  - session vulnerabilities
  - session hijacking
  - information leakage
---

For background information on the security requirements for web application
session management, check out the
[OWASP Session Management Cheat Sheet][owasp_session_management_cheatsheet].

## No server-side session revocation

> The default session management for a new Plug/Phoenix application typically uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default session management for a new Plug/Phoenix application uses
```

the [cookie session store][hexdoc:plug.session_cookie]. With this session store
the session state is maintained entirely in the client’s browser: there is no

> server-side session state, meaning the server cannot revokea session. Signing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
server-side session state, meaning the server cannot revoke a session. Signing
```

out merely clears the session cookie in the client’s browser, but does not
invalidate the session cookie value.

In practice this means that a session cookie, once captured by an attacker, can
be injected into HTTP requests to resume the session at any time, even if the

> user signed out afterwards. The only way to invalidate a session on the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be injected into HTTP requests to resume the session at any time, even after the
user has signed out. The only way to invalidate a session on the server
```

cookie. The session can then be invalidated by deleting the record from the
database or marking it as invalid, for instance when the user signs out.

The `mix phx.gen.auth` task, included in recent Phoenix versions, uses a
slightly different approach, where the session contents is stored in the cookie
rather than the database, along with the session identifier (here called the
`session_token`, stored in the `user_tokens` table). The task generates
implementations for session lifecycle events, such as invalidating sessions on
sign-out and on password change.

## No server-side session timeout

A session may not always be explicitly invalidated: the user might forget to
sign out, or the browser might crash. It is important that such ‘orphaned’
sessions do not remain valid indefinitely. The server should therefore
invalidate old or idle sessions. Note that setting an expiry time on the session
cookie is not sufficient, as this only takes care of clearing the cookie in the
browser: it does not invalidate the session in the server.

This requires a server-side session store, as described above, with additional

> fields for tracking the session creation timestamp and optionally the timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fields for tracking the session creation timestamp and/or the timestamp
```
